# Change Points
I wish I could just deploy my frontend and backend directly onto the server. However, there are a few things that need to different on the server -- for production, you know -- and they can be hard to keep track of. I'm going to write them out here:

# Overall Current Steps to run on server
1. Copy `local_settings.py` production template from `README/local_settings.py` and make sure the database and ALLOWED_HOSTS variables are configured correctly.
2. Check that `local_settings.py` is optionally loaded in `settings.py`.
3. Install all pip3 dependencies within `backend directory`
4. You should be using python version `3.9.6`, or whatever version is listed in `backend/python-version`, a tiny file generated by `pyenv`.
5. Run `python3 manage.py runserver {IP4}:7000 &` (the and symbol is to make this serve command runs in the background)
6. Head over to the frontend directory
7. Make sure that a build has been created locally and pushed to the production branch, since the server may not be powerful enough to run `npm run build`
8. Inside of the `frontend` directory, run `npx serve -s build`
9. For some reasont the & symbol will NOT continuously serve react in the background, and I don't have a total solution to continuous serving this site yet.
10. If you are having problems with where the Frontend is trying to make requests to the backend, check the `frontend/src/context/Config.js` file, which is what is responsible for creating a global variable that 

# How to Run Server in the Future
In the future I will be using a web server software, like NGINX, to serve the Django project as well as the React Frontend, as it is a more appropriate option for continually hosting a web app, and allows for more flexible configuration of ports.

After that, I would like to create a process that builds a docker image that serves the backend AND frontend off of an NGINX server, as well as spins up a MYSQL server that saves its data to a docker volume. I would like any configurations to these images to be passed into a docker environmental variable, and most importantly, I would like to be using the `buildx` tool that docker has to create a cross-development image that can be generated and pushed to docker hub on a Mac with an M1 chip (which I have) and then pulled down and run on a Ubuntu server.

# Backend

### Backend Alternations between Dev and Prod environments
1. settings.py - DEBUG = false
2. settings.py - ALLOWED_HOSTS = [{add whatever server IP address}]
3. SQLite turns into MYSQL server
4. Backend port 7000 may change

### Handling Alternating Config Variables in Backend
The pattern I've chosen for this is implementing a `local_settings.py` file within the `backend/backend/` directory. This file should be added to `.gitignore` to prevent it from being overwritten during git merges from the main branch to the production branch, which will happen as the application continues to develop. The way the `local_settings.py` file works is that the following block is added to the end of the normal `settings.py` file:

```python
try:
    from .local_settings import *
except ImportError as e:
    pass
```

This block imports every variable from the `local_settings.py` file and overwrite whatever values those variables may have had in the `local_settings.py` file. If the `local_settings.py` file is not found, that error is passed over, meaning that you could make the default configuration variables either for the server or dev environment, and then overwrite them on whichever of those environments is NOT the default. I would choose to overwrite them locally, since it is easier to simply DELETE a file than it is to WRITE and DEBUG one in the server environment, but I would like people to be able to reproduce the development environment as easily as possible to test it out. That said, I will still define an example for each file as if you were over-writing existing values, since I think it is clearer that way. You can find these examples in the `local_settings.md` file in this `README` directory.

<br>

----

<br>

# Frontend

### Frontend Alternations between Dev and Prod environments
1. `src/context/Config - serverURL variable
2. SASS seems to be stricter. For example, `opacity: 70%` must be `opacity: 0.7`.
3. Frontend port 3000 may change

### Handling Alternating Config Variables in Frontend
I feel that I have better tools at my disposal for handling configuration alterations in the frontend. Our two best tools are

1) This conditional: `if (window.location.hostname === "localhost"){ ...`
2) Node's `process.env.VARIABLE`

Which can probably be made globally accessible most easily through the `frontend/src/context/Config.js` context.